# lynx.io

The source code for the [lynx.io](http://lynx.io/) website.

## Installation

To install the lynx.io source locally, create config.php and install the dependencies using composer by running the following commands:

```
cp config.sample.php config.php
curl -s http://getcomposer.org/installer | php
php composer.phar install
```

Then adjust config.php as necessary.


## Sending an article to lynx.io

Articles are written in MarkDown, and use the following syntax:

```
<info>
title: Article title
author: username
date: %date%
tags: seperated, by, commas
summary: Summary of article
</info>

Article text here.
```

Some points and guidelines:

* The date should always be `%date%` - when your article is accepted, it will be automatically generated.
* Tags can contain spaces, and should be lowercase. Separate them by a comma and a space, like this: `php, functions`
* The summary should be either a summary or short excerpt from the first couple paragraphs of your article.
* The slug will be generated by the file name. Once the article has been accepted, this can not be changed (although the contents of the article can).
* Articles should be in good English. They can be any length, but they should contain enough information to make it useful.
* You should not use first-level headings - the article title will be a first level heading.
* Check out previous articles to see how to format your articles.
* Images should be no more than 1000px wide (although try to make them smaller). Use the `{{ articleimage }}` variable, which points to `/assets/imgs/article-slug/` (put your images in there).
* Images should not be hosted externally.
* **IF YOU SEND ME AN ARTICLE WITH WINDOWS LINE ENDINGS AND I DON'T NOTICE, IT WILL BREAK THE SITE - PLEASE USE UNIX LINE ENDINGS!**

If this is your first article, then you will need to add yourself as an author. Choose your username carefully (it cannot be changed), and then create `authors/username.json` containing the following:

```json
{
	"username": "username",
	"name": "Full Name",
	"email": "email@example.com",
	"website": "http://example.com/",
	"description": "Short bio"
}
```

Anything but your username can be changed at any point in the future by sending a pull request.